---
title: "GSoC 2026"
layout: "single"
ShowToc: true
TocOpen: false
ShowReadingTime: false
date: "2026-01-18"
---


**TL;DR** Jump to the [Ideas list](#project-ideas).

# Introduction

This year, we participate again, effectively continuing the tradition since 2015.

## Mentors

Members of the Rizin and Cutter core teams have volunteered to guide participants for GSoC’26. They have already been guiding the participants for the GSoC and RSoC in past years. Please feel free to reach out to any of them if you need any help in selecting a project.

- **Anton Kochkov** Mattermost: xvilka -- [@akochkov](https://twitter.com/akochkov)
- **Giovanni Dante Grazioli** Mattermost/Telegram: @deroad [@der0ad](https://twitter.com/der0ad)
- And many others

## Development methodology

Currently, all repositories are hosted on GitHub [main](https://github.com/rizinorg/) organization account and bugs are tracked on GitHub [issues](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues) too. We are primarily using [our own Mattermost instance](https://im.rizin.re), IRC, and [Telegram](https://t.me/rizinorg)) for communication.
We have a [testsuite](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/tree/dev/test) (which is running on GitHub Actions, [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/rizinorg/rizin), [AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rizinorg/rizin) and SourceHut) to test and verify that all the features are still working and that a pull requests or commits don't break anything, to ensure the support of different operating systems (Linux, MacOS, Windows, FreeBSD, OpenBSD), different architectures (x86/x86_64, ARM64, PowerPC, SystemZ), and to find regressions.
We encourage contributors to write test cases and documentation in order to verify the implementation and ensure that everything fits well together. For complex bugs and examples, we're using [ASCIInema](http://asciinema.org/) to record the sessions.

See also our guides for corresponding projects:
- Rizin [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Developers Intro](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/blob/dev/DEVELOPERS.md)
- Cutter [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Developers Intro](https://cutter.re/docs/code.html)

For those who want to get introduced to the Rizin codebase and practices, we recommend to pick one of the easy issues for [Rizin](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/good%20first%20issue) or [Cutter](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/labels/good%20first%20issue) to start with.

Due to concerns about the quality of code generated by AI agents, we strongly discourage applicants who solely rely on them, from applying to our Google Summer of Code program. We require all the GSoC participants to demonstrate understanding of the code they submit to our repositories, and therefore reserve the right at any moment of time, to request the prompts sent to their AI tools to assess actual skills and comprehension of the person.

## License

Rizin is modular: this means that it aims to make all the elements and features easily reusable from other projects. The choice of [LGPL3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html) as a license is the minimum requirement to get code merged in Rizin. Contributors can choose Apache, BSD, MIT, Public Domain, or other similar licenses. The reason to exclude GPL as a valid license for the project is because we aim to support proprietary software that uses Rizin while protecting our free codebase.

## Instructions for participants

Participants who want to apply to the Rizin project for the Google Summer of Code 2026 are required to submit a small pull request accomplishing one of the [microtasks](#microtasks) (see below) as part of their application. You can also choose any of the GitHub issues for Rizin if they are big enough to be a qualification task and still small enough to be finished in no more than a couple of weeks. To help participants understand how to contribute to the project, there are issues marked as **"good first issue"** for both [Rizin](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/good%20first%20issue) and [Cutter](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/labels/good%20first%20issue).

> **IMPORTANT**
> AI tools must not be used to fix GitHub issues labelled `good first issue`.
> These issues are generally not urgent, and are intended to be learning
> opportunities for new contributors to get familiar with the codebase.
> Whether you are a newcomer or not, fully automating the process
> of fixing this issue squanders the learning opportunity and doesn't add much
> value to the project.
> **Using AI tools to fix issues labelled as `good first issues` is forbidden**.

## Programming languages

Most of Rizin is written in C (conforming to the C99 standard), and hence, we expect participants to be familiar with C programming language. For some of our tasks or microtasks, such as [rz-pm](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-pm), they should know the Go programming language. For the [Cutter tasks](#cutter), it is a requirement to know C++ and Qt framework basics.

## Recommended steps

1. Read Google's instructions for participating
2. Grab any of the projects from the list of ideas that you're interested in (or propose your own).
3. Write a first draft proposal using Google Docs and [our template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kDPGgr_D5tQuYLQi_gEGlkuQ-DlU8GH5kDBqZbVSC7I/edit?usp=sharing) and ask one of the mentors or administrators to review it with you.
4. Submit it using Google's web interface.

## Participant proposal guidelines

1. Keep it simple enough to fit in no more than a couple of pages. Try to be clear and concise in your writing.
2. Try to split the entire GSoC period into tasks and each task into subtasks. It helps us understand how you plan to accomplish your goals, but more importantly, it'll help you understand the task deep enough before starting and prioritize important things to do first.
3. Please note how much time a day/week you can spend on this project.
4. Please specify which category you apply for - medium task or extended deadline one.
5. Specify your timezone so we can assign you a mentor in the same one to ease communication.
6. Submit your proposal early, not at the last minute!
7. Be sure to choose a “backup” idea (the second task you want to do) so that conflicts (two participants for one task) can be resolved.

# Project Ideas

# Cutter

## Improving usability and user experience (175 hour project)

The Cutter's backend provides many features that are not exposed or exposed in Cutter
efficiently. The goal of this task would be to figure out the users' biggest pain points and
address them by improving or reworking the interface. Some of the issues are already in our GitHub,
while others might be figured during the cross-comparison with other tools.

### Task
 - Add a scrollbar to the disassembly and hexdump widgets
 - Better syntax highlight and theming
 - Managing window/widget overlays
 - Add information about status of the analysis, signature searching, and other operations
 - Address various small UI problems that make user's life harder than necessary

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C++ and be familiar with Qt framework. Basics of the
design/UX would be a plus.

### Difficulty
Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will gain an experience of creating comfortable and efficient user interface with
C++/Qt.

### Benefits for the project
It will make interface and user experience more consistent, on par with Rizin itself, and other
tools.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Add scrollbar to necessary widget, improve theming and syntax highlight
- Final term: Managing widgets layouts, docking; provide action status information

### Mentors
- xvilka
- Megabeets

### Links/Resources
- [User Experience project for Cutter](https://github.com/orgs/rizinorg/projects/4)
- [User Experience project for Rizin](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/projects/1)

## Plugins and Python High Level API (175 hour project)

Our current public API to be used by plugin authors is somewhat limited. We need to improve a lot of things about our Plugins support and take it few steps ahead.
This task is only about improving the public C++ and Python interface of Cutter, specifically its graphical user interface components. For a task about exposing Rizin's API for disassembly, analysis and other purposes, see the Rizin bindings task above.

### Task
 - Expose everything Cutter can offer for plugin authors. This includes high level API, integration of the plugin management etc.
 - Accessing everything from Python (like Blender) - see [issue #1662](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1662)
 - Python integration and IPython console.

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C++ and Python languages, and be familiar with Qt framework

### Difficulty
Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will gain an experience of creating a suitable API for scripting graphical interface
programs.

### Benefits for the project
It will greatly improve the scripting experience, will make API more consistent and will ease
creating Cutter plugins by the community. Moreover, it will simplify testing of the Cutter features.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Design of the high level API and required Rizin changes. Review and implement all missing API functions that are accessible as interface controls.
- Final term: Implement the way to show the API when hovered over some interface control, create documentation.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- deroad

### Links/Resources
- [SDB Module/API for Cutter Python/Jupyter integration](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1778)
- [Jupyter plugin for Cutter](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter-jupyter)

## Multi-Tasking and Event-driven architecture (350 hour project)

The information Cutter gets about functions, strings, imports, and the analysis are all performed in Rizin and only displayed in Cutter. Currently, it is pulling most information from Rizin only on demand. This is problematic because sometimes the user performs changes (via plugins, the console widget, and more) that are affecting the information from Rizin, but Cutter doesn't know about these changes to apply the to the UI. For example, if a user will define a new function in a Python script or via the console widget by using the Rizin command `af @ <addr>`, Cutter will not show this new function in the Functions widget until the user will refresh the interface manually (Edit -> Refresh Contents).
The goal of this task is to use an event-driven architecture to overcome this limitation.

In addition, this task will also handle the analysis in the background feature, to allow the analysis performed by Rizin to happen while the interface is active.

### Tasks
The overall implementation of this task should start from Rizin by adding events to many of the functions. This can be done using `rz_events`. For example, add an event for function creating, for section creation, for flag deletion, for name changed, and more

- Add events to all the relevant functions inside Rizin
- Add support for these events in Cutter and refresh and update the relevant widgets per each event
- Support analysis in the background and allow the user to start its session while Rizin is analyzing (see [#1856](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1856), [#1574](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1574))

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C++ for Cutter and C for Rizin. They should also be familiar with Qt framework. Experience in GUI code architecture, for example using functional reactive programming or Elm-like approaches is a plus.

### Difficulty
Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will gain an experience of creating complex event-driven software in both C and C++ languages.

### Benefits for the project
It will allow to work on big files effortlessly in Cutter, will improve analysis quality as well.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Implement events everywhere in the relevant places across Rizin code and event-driven
	interaction with Cutter.
- Final term: Add support for the Cutter interface refresh based on the events from Rizin, implement analysis in background.

### Mentors
- xvilka

## Heap viewer completion (175 hour project)

Thanks to the work that was done in the previous GSoC, Cutter and Rizin have nice visualizations of the heap and memory maps. We would like to expand on this feature with performance improvements to the heap parsers and support more memory allocators.

### Task
 - Complete Cutter's implementation of the windows heap widget #[2723](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/pull/2723)
 - Improve the performance of the Windows heap parser
 - Fix Windows heap parsing errors
 - Make the implementation work with remote debugging modes

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C++, and be familiar with Qt framework

### Difficulty
Medium

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will gain the understanding on how modern runtimes provide the heap for various
programs, which will be beneficial for the binary exploitation skills.

### Benefits for the project
It will greatly improve the debugging and reverse engineering experience for complex programs,
also provides the way to design the exploitation techniques with the help of Rizin/Cutter.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Design and implement heap visualization widgets, add Rizin test and fixes
- Final term: Various bugfixes related to the heap inspection support on various platforms and allocators, tests and documentation.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- Megabeets

### Links/Resources
- [Issue #1041](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1041)
- [Heap Viewer plugin for IDA Pro](https://github.com/danigargu/heap-viewer)
- [Heap parsing for MacOS, tmalloc, jmalloc](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/208)
- [Dynamic Allocator Detection](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/157)
- ["heap"-marked Rizin issues](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/heap)

## Diffing mode (175 hour project)

Binary diffing is one of the most common tasks for the reverse engineer. There are many
tools available, but most of them are either detached from the main RE toolbox or poorly integrated.
Rizin provides basic diffing features out of the box with `rz-diff` tool, but Cutter has no
interface to represent similar functionality.

### Task
- Expose basic `rz-diff` features in the Cutter
- Create the interface to choose two files for diffing
- Create the way to show the differences in all main widgets:
	- Hexadecimal view
	- Disassembly view
	- Graph view
	- Pseudocode view

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C++ language, and be familiar with Qt framework

### Difficulty
Medium

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will gain an experience of creating efficient graphical interfaces.

### Benefits for the project
It will greatly benefit the project since Cutter will be the only FOSS RE tool to provide this
feature out of the box.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Expose the `rz-diff` features in the Cutter core and create the interface for opening
	files for diffing. Implement the diff modes for hexadecimal and disassembly views.
- Final term: Implement the diff modes for graph and pseudocode views, create the documentation.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- deroad

### Links/Resources
- [Issue #1104](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/1104)
- [BinDiff](https://www.zynamics.com/bindiff.html)
- [Diaphora](https://github.com/joxeankoret/diaphora)

# Rizin

## Classes analysis for C++/ObjectiveC/Swift/Dlang/Java (350 hour project)

Analysis classes, accessible under the `ac` command, is a relatively new feature of rizin.
They provide a way to both manually and automatically manage and use information about classes in the binary. But their support is only bare bones, without supporting various analysis integration, as well as display in the disassembly output.

In GSoC 2025 initial work on this task had been done, but a bulk of the task still needs to be completed. For example, [the #5415 PR - ObjectiveC inheritance](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/pull/5415) needs to be updated, finished, and merged.

Apart from that, parsing additional information like SEH is sometimes helpful for reconstructing C++ (and other languages) classes: [#2271](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/2271) and [#2247](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/2247).

Consider the following call: `call dword [eax + 0x6c]`
Let's assume eax is the base pointer of a vtable we have saved in class analysis and we want to find out the actual address of the called method.

So there should be a command that takes the offset (in this case 0x6c) and looks up the actual destination.
It should be possible to call this command with a specific class, so it only looks into its vtable, or without a class, so it gives a list of possible destinations for all vtables that are not too small for the offset.

When that is implemented, one could also add a command that does the same thing, but automatically takes the offset from the opcode at the current seek.

### Task

- Connecting classes with their methods
- Class inheritance - nesting data structs
- Constructors and destructors autorecognition
- `try`/`catch`/`finally` recognition and marking
- arguments recognition
- ASCII/graphviz graph of class inheritance/structure inheritance
- Tests with sources for C++, FreePascal, D language, ObjC and Swift, for rizin-testbins
- Classes list via `Vb`. It already supports browsing bin classes. The same thing should be implemented for classes from analysis.

### Skills
* Good knowledge of the C language
* Good knowledge of the C++ language (other languages, like ObjC, Swift, D, etc are a plus)

### Difficulty
Hard

### Benefits for the participant
Participant will understand how OOP languages work under the hood, and will master technique of detecting various high level (classes, methods) abstractions in the binary code.

### Benefits for the project
It will greatly benefit the project to allow efficient reverse engineering of the programs written in C++ and other OOP languages.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: implement classes integration into the analysis, type inference; detect constructors and destructors, `try`/`catch` blocks.
- Final term: Class inheritance recognition, virtual methods detection, building class inheritance graphs, visual mode to inspect classes and methods relationships.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- deroad

### Links and resources
- [Improve vtable detection for C++, ObjectiveC, Dlang and Swift binaries - issue #416](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/416)
- [Devirtualize method calls using class vtables - issue #414](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/414)

## FRIDA integration (175 hour project)

[FRIDA](https://frida.re) is the famous dynamic instrumentation toolkit that is immensely popular among mobile device researches. Rizin could be easily integrated with Frida by creating a plugin that will allow to connect to the Frida instance, receive traces, set breakpoints, get information and events from it.

### Task
1. Create the basic plugin that allows attaching, spwaning, launching processes within Frida loco ally
2. Support remote connection
3. Add feature to receive information from the Frida instanced
4. Add breakpoints and run/step/continue feature's
5. Support calling functions and scripts in the context of the instrumented process

### Skills
Participant should know C as well as have the experience of working with debuggers.

### Difficulty
Hard

### Benefits for the participant
Participant will understand and learn how to use Frida toolkit, also the internals of the debugging and instrumentation processes.

### Benefits for the project
It will allow easy dynamic code instrumentation right from the Rizin or Cutter session, allowing tracing and code inspection.

### Assess requirements for midterm/final evaluation
- 1st term: Implement core of the FRIDA plugin, allowing local and remote debugging features
- Final term: Add support for extended features like calling functions or scripts within the context

### Mentors
 - xvilka
 - deroad

### Links/Resources
- [FRIDA](https://frida.re)
- [FRIDA (GitHub)](https://github.com/frida/frida)
- [r2frida](https://github.com/nowsecure/r2frida)

## Exploitation capabilities improvements (175 hour project)

Since modern architectures are now enforcing [W^X](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W%5EX), exploiters are using [ROP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Return-oriented_programming). (Un)fortunately, building ROP chain by hand can be tedious, this is why some tools can be used to ease this construction: ImmunityDBG has [mona.py](https://www.corelan.be/index.php/2012/12/31/jingle-bofs-jingle-rops-sploiting-all-the-things-with-mona-v2/), there is also [ROPgadget](http://www.shell-storm.org/project/ROPgadget/) and [dropper](https://github.com/rizlik/dropper). There exist even tools that can generate ROP chains automatically, for example [exrop](https://github.com/d4em0n/exrop). It's a shame that despite having [RzIL](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/blob/dev/doc/rzil.md), Rizin doesn't have something similar yet. One of the possible solutions would be to build an external plugin or tool which will reuse power of librz and rz-gg. Moreover it makes sense to think about SROP, COOP and BROP support.

The last year (GSoC'24) one of our participants started implementing this feature, but it wasn't finished. You could check the [rz-solver](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-solver) repository for more details.

Also, the `rz-gg` tool while has the ability to create a custom shellcode but there is still [a lot of work](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Arz-gg) required.

### Task
1. Fix `rz-gg` issues
2. Write a compiler which uses SMT solver (like Z3 for example) to produce the ropchain: [#4563](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/4563).
4. Support main architectures - x86, ARM, MIPS, PowerPC at the very least

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C language, know some assembly and a high-level language. Also, knowing a little bit of automatic binary analysis wouldn’t hurt.

### Difficulty
Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will improve their skills in software exploitation and solvers.

### Benefits for the project
This feature would greatly help during exploits development, and people would be able to ditch mona.py for Rizin ;)

### Assess requirements for evaluation
- 1st term: Creating the language for defining the ROP chain semantics and integrating it with SMT solver
- Final term: Working ropchain compiler, covered by tests and documented in the Rizin book.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- Rot127

### Links/Resources
- [ROPGadget](http://shell-storm.org/project/ROPgadget/)
- [Ropper](https://github.com/sashs/Ropper)
- [Angrop](https://github.com/salls/angrop)
- [ROPC](https://github.com/pakt/ropc)
- [exrop](https://github.com/d4em0n/exrop)
- [roper2](https://github.com/oblivia-simplex/roper2)
- [mona.py](https://www.corelan.be/index.php/2012/12/31/jingle-bofs-jingle-rops-sploiting-all-the-things-with-mona-v2/) from corelan
- [Hunting for ROP Gadgets in Style](https://media.blackhat.com/us-13/US-13-Quynh-OptiROP-Hunting-for-ROP-Gadgets-in-Style-WP.pdf) (2012)
- [dropper](https://github.com/rizlik/dropper) a BARF-based rop chain generator
- [Materials](http://dustri.org/b/files/hacklu2014_r2_exploitation.tar.xz) about the exloitation workshop at Hack.lu 2014
- [Slides](https://github.com/XVilka/hacklu) for the exploitation part of workshop at Hack.lu 2015
- [RzEgg related bugs](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/RzEgg)

## Binary case reduce tool (175 hours project)

Similar to [Csmith/Creduce](https://github.com/csmith-project/creduce) but operating on the binary files, to reduce the size of the test and to avoid sharing proprietary/classified files.

It can perform these operations:

- cut bytes
- shift
- zero/0xFF/mask bytes
- remove section

Since it requires some knowledge of the file format, existing libraries like [LIEF](https://lief.re/) could be used.

### Task
1. Make a tool to reduce the size of ELF using specified operations
2. Extend it to other formats - PE, MachO
3. Create tests for this tool
4. Research the possibility of minimizing some testcases that are already in the Rizin repository.

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C language, as well as the high-level language of a choice (Python or Rust).

### Difficulty
Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will improve their understanding in file formats and their mutation.

### Benefits for the project
This feature would greatly help in minimizing and anonimizing testcases for the Rizin and any other binary analysis tool.

### Assess requirements for evaluation
- 1st term: Create the simple tool to reduce the ELF size
- Final term: Extend it to other formats, improve the "compression" rate, cover with tests.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- deroad

### Links/Resources

- https://github.com/rizinorg/ideas/issues/52

## Function prelude detection plugin (175 hours project) 

A common problem in binary analysis is function detection.

One method is searching for function preludes. Preludes are a sequence of instructions commonly found at the beginning of a function.
These preludes perform tasks like setting up the stack, or initializing registers to values as defined in the architecture's ABI.

It is very common to hard-code these prelude patters and match instructions against them.
These patterns get outdated, are tedious to update, and have to be written for each architecture.

Instead an algorithm to detect function preludes, based on bytes from known functions, should be implemented.

### Task

The student implements the prelude detection algorithm in form of a plugin.

The plugin collects bytes found at call targets, compares their similarity and generates possible prelude patterns from byte sequences with a high similarity.

Lastly, a stand-alone version of the algorithm should be implemented, by writing a simple wrapper around the plugin.

### Skills
The participant should be comfortable with the C language.
Being strong in statistics is a plus.

### Difficulty
Beginner/Advanced

### Benefits for the participant
The participant will improve their understanding in basic binary analysis and algorithm design.

### Benefits for the project
This feature would greatly help in detecting functions independent of the binary's architecture and give a ready to be used tool to the reverse engineering community.

### Assess requirements for evaluation
- Design the matching algorithm and implement in a plugin.

### Mentors
- xvilka
- deroad
- Rot127

# Microtasks

When taking any of microtasks please be sure someone isn't already working on them, and let
us know if you are going to work on a particular one.

## Cutter UX improvements

There are many small issues and missing features that when implemented will improve the user experience significantly:

- [Variables and values popup widgets on mouse hover](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/2532)
- [Double-click on the type in Disasm and Graph widgets should switch to the Types windows and show the selected type](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/2780)
- [Unified dialogue to set debug symbols servers](https://github.com/rizinorg/cutter/issues/3202)

See full list at our [User Experience](https://github.com/orgs/rizinorg/projects/4/views/1) project covering all parts of RizinOrg: Rizin, Cutter, RzGhidra, rz-pm.

## File formats

Implementing the support for any new file format counts as a microtask. See [New File-Format](https://github.com/rizinorg/ideas/labels/New%20File%20Format) label for pending issues.

Notable good task is extending OMF file format to support more of its variations: [OMF51 and OMF96](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5418).

One more format that is COFF-based and is good to have in Rizin is [TI-COFF](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/4299).

Another important improvement of the existing format is [parsing `__cstring` section of Mach-O files](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5409).

## Disassemblers and assemblers

Implementing the support for any new architecture counts as a microtask. See [New-Architecture](https://github.com/rizinorg/ideas/labels/New%20Architecture) label for pending issues.

Notable example is the [BPF dissembly and analysis support](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/4757).

## Analysis

The current code analysis has many caveats and issues which need addressing. Fixing them and writing more tests is important to stabilize and enhance rizin's analysis engine.

[See these issues](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/RzAnalysis) on our GitHub dashboard.

### Heap analysis

Currently Rizin has support for heap exploration and analysis, but the feature is still basic and can be improved. Additionally, [other allocators can be added](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/208) (MacOS, tmalloc, etc.), [musl](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5238), [uClibc](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5239).

## Debugging

- [Haiku OS native debugger](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5150)

## Miscellaneous

### `rz-find` multiple directories support

Simply allow `rz-find` [searching among multiple paths](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5253), just like coreutils `find` tool.

### `rz-ar` - code archives unpacking tool

https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/4866

### Improving regression suite and testing

It is required to solve [numerous issues](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/labels/rz-test), along with improving parallel execution and performance.
The next interesting idea is to setup and reuse Godbolt compilation engine for generating tests for different compilers and compilation options. There is even a command line tool for interacting with Godbolt - [cce](https://github.com/ethanhs/cce).

### Unbreaking broken tests

Almost one thousand of tests marked as "broken" in our testsuite. The task is to take any of those,
investigate why it fails, if the test makes sense now or already irrelevant today. Then to try to
fix some of the broken tests.

## RzGhidra

There are many small issues in the decompiler output:
- [`pdgsd` commands showing incorrect P-code](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/172)
- [Improvements in recovering jump tables](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/236)
- [rz-ghidra can't detect string](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/85)
- [Ghidra Decompiler Error: Could not finish collapsing block structure](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/203)
- [Prioritize keeping vars with lower addresses](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/167)
- [Minor improvements for the SLEIGH plugin](https://github.com/rizinorg/rz-ghidra/issues/133)

Some of these issues might be related on how Rizin and RzGhidra integrate and might require changes
in the Rizin side.

Also note that most of these issues should be paired with the test to verify it will not break in
the future.
